README.md, before:


![demo](pics/demo.gif)

# [Markpad](https://markpad.sftwr.dev)

A simple, lightweight Markdown viewer and text editor for Windows, macOS, and Linux.

Download from [markpad.sftwr.dev](https://markpad.sftwr.dev)

## Features

- Tabbed interface
- Monaco editor (VS Code)
- Split view
- Syntax highlighting both in editor and code blocks
- Mermaid diagram support
- Vim mode
- Auto-reload
- Zen mode
- Image and YouTube embeds
- Familiar GitHub styled markdown rendering
- Tiny memory usage (~10MB)
- No telemetry or bloat
- Free and open-source
- Lightweight native UI

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)

## Installation

Download the latest executable or installer from the [releases page](https://github.com/alecdotdev/Markpad/releases/latest) or from [markpad.sftwr.dev](https://markpad.sftwr.dev)

#### Windows Installer
Automatically configures `.md` file association 

#### Other Platforms & Windows Portable
Right click on a markdown file and select "Open with" and select the downloaded or installed executable

## Installation from source

- Clone the repository
- Run `npm install` to install dependencies
- Run `npm run tauri build` to build the installer
- Repeat the steps above to set the executable as the default program to open `.md` files

## Screenshots

![readme splitview demo](pics/image.png)
![codeblock demonstration](pics/image1.png)
![editor view](pics/image2.png)
![home page](pics/image3.png)

Commit message:

(feat) snap and choco pkgs pre-release

README.md, after:


![demo](pics/demo.gif)

# [Markpad](https://markpad.sftwr.dev)

A simple, lightweight Markdown viewer and text editor for Windows, macOS, and Linux.

Download from [markpad.sftwr.dev](https://markpad.sftwr.dev)

## Features

- Tabbed interface
- Monaco editor (VS Code)
- Split view
- Syntax highlighting both in editor and code blocks
- Mermaid diagram support
- Vim mode
- Auto-reload
- Zen mode
- Image and YouTube embeds
- Familiar GitHub styled markdown rendering
- Tiny memory usage (~10MB)
- No telemetry or bloat
- Free and open-source
- Lightweight native UI

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)

## Installation

Download the latest executable or installer from the [releases page](https://github.com/alecdotdev/Markpad/releases/latest) or from [markpad.sftwr.dev](https://markpad.sftwr.dev)

#### Snap Store (Linux)
You can install Markpad from the Snap Store:
```bash
sudo snap install markpad
```

#### Chocolatey (Windows)
You can install Markpad using Chocolatey:
```powershell
choco install markpad
```

#### Windows Installer
Automatically configures `.md` file association 

#### Other Platforms & Windows Portable
Right click on a markdown file and select "Open with" and select the downloaded or installed executable

## Installation from source

- Clone the repository
- Run `npm install` to install dependencies
- Run `npm run tauri build` to build the installer
- Repeat the steps above to set the executable as the default program to open `.md` files

## Screenshots

![readme splitview demo](pics/image.png)
![codeblock demonstration](pics/image1.png)
![editor view](pics/image2.png)
![home page](pics/image3.png)
